When a press runs smoothly, it's a beautiful synchronization of technology.
But to get to that point is an amazing feat.
We were new.
Most of our crew had never even worked on a press before.
And this was an incredibly complex machine.
It has to be to do what it does.
Each role is spliced automatically.
The press never stops.
The splice is so fast.
Everything has to be perfect.
Or the paper could break.
There can't even be the slightest defect in a role.
A dent or a nick could stop everything.
We use a special tape that will attach to the previous role.
It hits nerve-wracking.
Every time a new role starts.
And you go through that.
It could be 20 times a shift.
But then the press takes over.
The new role is brought up to speed.
It's able to track the exact location of the tape
and connect it to the running paper perfectly.
And that's just to keep the paper flowing.
Now it has to do the printing.
The paper passes through four incunence,
each applying a layer of color.
The result is a full color page.
At a small scale, what looks like continuous color
is actually just dots of ink.
The dots from those four colors have to line up perfectly
within a fraction of a millimeter.
And all of that has to happen while the paper flies through
at 15 meters per second.
At the top and bottom of an ink unit are cylinders
with printing plates.
These plates have been made so that when water and ink mix on them,
the ink is attracted to the image portion
while the water separates onto the non-image portion.
The ink on the plates is applied to rubber blankets,
which act like large stamps that press the ink
onto both sides of the paper.
In order to get a vibrant and clear finish product,
there are so many things that have to go exactly right.
And everything is constantly changing.
The ink levels, the water levels, the humidity,
the properties of the paper.
You're always working to get things just right.
We have to manage all these changes just by varying the water and the ink.
In the end, if you've done your job right, no one should notice.
Once the ink is applied, the publication has to be shaped into its final form.
We have to monitor the fold, the glue, the dryer, the drill rollers, the tension.
The paper is heated and then cooled to set the ink permanently to the page.
It's divided into two ribbons and is aligned.
Then it has to be folded three times.
Each fold has to be perfectly aligned.
We pull samples regularly to check the quality.
You're always thinking, visualizing things you can't see,
trying to figure out how it affects the finished publication.
The two layers of paper are folded in half on the cone-shaped former board,
and then cut into individual signatures.
The signatures then go through large folding cylinders and receive what we call the cross fold.
They are divided into two lines.
Both lines receive a final chop fold.
They're stopped by magnetic breaks and an arm forces them between two rollers.
And through this whole process, there are over 30 parameters that we adjust to keep everything in alignment.
You can never let your guard down.
Different paper, even different rolls can have a big impact on the fold.
It's like driving a car.
You're constantly checking your speed, correcting your direction,
reacting to traffic and road conditions.
Only you're driving several cars at the same time.
We printed a quarter of a billion magazines last year.
Every year, every month, the need goes up.